High in this video we're going to take a quick look at the doc strings and notations code.
So you remember that if we call help on let's say and a built in function python like help on print
we'll get some kind of documentation for the print function.
We saw that for other things as well like we can do help let's say all class as well and we get some
documentation as well for the class so far with our own functions.
We can do the same thing.
But again let's say say death my Kong I will take in two parameters A and B that say a default of 1
and just will return 8 times b.
Now we can call help on my function and you'll notice that we get something back.
We get basically the function definition the function header.
Right.
But nothing else.
So we can remedy that by putting in a documentation string which has to be the first line of code in
the function and it has to be a string.
It can be a single line string or a multi-line string but delimited don't matter.
Some people will say well you have to use triple quotes.
No you don't.
You can use single quotes if you want.
So you can say returns a times B and if you run on that now you get your documentation here.
But of course if you want to use multi lines now you're going to have to go back here and you're going
to have to put in triple quotes.
So that's why people use triple quotes in general because you generally will have more than one line.
And even if you don't you kind of pre-build it in such a way that you know if I have a single line and
I want to add something right some additional comments here.
And technically I shouldn't call it comments of call it docs here documentation because a string is
not a comment.
Right.
So you do that.
Now it's kind of pre-build in order to have multi-line documentation.
So that's why people will use triple quotes in general if we do that.
As you can see this comes back here as well and you can add you know more lines and get you can you
know to a section that discusses your inputs.
Another section that discusses the outputs may be right and song and if we run this and run that as
you can see we have that as well.
So remember this is not a comment a comment would look something like this.
So some comments here.
Right.
This is a comment.
Now you'll notice that the docstring is no longer the first line of the function and yet it still worked.
Why.
Because this is not a part of the code.
It doesn't get compiled.
So technically it's not the last line of this function.
The first line of code in this function is this right here.
Now if I put another string over here let's say some comments here.
Right now if I look at help then yeah this now has changed.
Right.
This is now my document string not this over here because that's not the first line that's not the first
line of code.
Right.
In the function the first line of code is this.
Over here.
Same thing if you put in a calls.
Let's say your name was put in a dummy variable.
Then you get the same thing.
There is no docstring now anymore.
Right.
Why.
Because this wasn't the first line of code this was.
But of course comments true comments don't count.
All right.
So if we go back to that use what we have and we can see where this comment is still.
So this is part of your code.
It's not a comment it's a docstring.
And where is it being stone words being attached to the my funk function.
Functions are objects they have properties just like any object in particular.
They also have the duck property and his Yodok property it's just your string it's your docstring right.
That gets contained in there.
Now of course you can add them documentation as much as you want.
Right but it doesn't affect how your code runs.
It's external applications that are going to use that like the help function for example.
Right.
That's just going to read the documentation string and displayed in some way this case that just does
this.
You might have other external applications like the Sphinx documentation system that will read that
and do something with it in order to create documentation on your code.
So a lot of people will use this instead of just the comments because if you use it this way instead
of using a comment to you know document what the function does then it's great because now external
tools can leverage that as well.
And this is why sometimes people think of those as comments but they're not technically comments.
This is a comment that's ignored by the python interpreted gets you know totally dumped out of your
code whereas this is a string that just sits by itself it's not assigned to anything it doesn't really
do much other than be there.
But then when Python encounters it it recognizes it since it's the first line of code as a docstring.
And so when the function is created it puts it inside the duck property the Dundalk property.
So this gets assigned to the Donald Duck property when def runs OK.
When this function is created at the time of creation Another time the function runs just when it gets
created.
So we can go a step further.
We can also start documenting the parameters themselves.
So let's say we have this Skeff my phunk will put in a and then we'll document it.
And the annotations can be any expression.
So in this case I'm just going to use a string.
So you know notation a.
Then we'll put in B as well and we'll say and notation then put B and we can retain the default value.
Nothing changes we don't lose any functionality with annotations so we can document B and we can also
specify full value equals 1.
We can also document the return value of the function.
And let me fix the typo.
So what's the return value going to be.
I don't know something right.
This is really just a bogus function.
And maybe something with a long notation.
OK.
Now you'll notice what's happening here is that it's not going off the screen.
Right.
I can't see everything together.
So this is a great time to start using multi-line.
And so here we go.
Now we can finally end the function header right with the call up and then we're just going to return
a times b then not we do help on my phunk.
You'll notice that.
We get those annotations that come back in the function header but Doulos there's no docstring while
the app there's no docstring because we didn't put anything.
So let's put a docstring in let's say you know documentation for my bunk or whatever it is.
Now if we do that now we have the notations and we have the documentation.
So this means that the notations are not stored in the docstring writes.
In fact if we look at my phunk on the dock you'll see that it's just the documents string the annotations
are stored in a different property called annotations.
So done annotations which will be a dictionary in the dictionary will contain key value pairs the keys
of your parameter names and the values or your notations.
Now you can use any expression that you want.
For the annotation which means we could do something like this.
Let's say where X equals 3 y equals 5 and let's left my funk.
It's going to take in a and b points where they can just a single parameter a.
And it's going to return eight times the maximum of x and y.
So now this function here is referencing X and Y right outside of its scope but still in the model.
So it's it's a global you know it's these X and Y are basically all global variables on global to the
model.
So what does that function do.
Well if I call my fonk let's say on a it's going to return a multiply by 5 right because the max of
3 and 5 is fine.
Now let's go ahead and rotate that.
Let's just say a is going to be some character write some character.
And what about the return value.
Well it's going to be the character a repeated how many times.
While we don't know right it's going to be repeated.
We're going to concatenate the max of X and Y because that's actually what we're doing.
Now of course we're going to have to just cast that to a string.
So we have to create a string and repeated That's Clauss times.
OK.
So this is what we're doing for the return.
So now let's look at my phunk of a that still works the same as before.
And we can look at my func notations on the annotations and you'll see that this return was actually
evaluated right.
It actually evaluated a max of x and y.
I probably should put in space but just to clean up are repeated.
Why do I have single quotes sorry about births.
It's clean that up.
There we go.
So the return is the character.
A repeated five times.
Now you'll notice that it actually did the max it calculated the mass.
But you've got to be careful.
Think back to when we're looking at default values for functions.
Default values are evaluated when at the time at which the function is created.
So when the def is encountered then the default values get evaluated right.
For example we could say B to put in another one that's going to be the max of x and y right.
It's going to be equal to the max of x and y so we can certainly do that.
And if we print b out
right.
It prints out 5.
So that was the default value.
But it gets evaluated when the function is created.
And same thing with this over here.
This notation gets evaluated when the function is created which means that if I change let's say the
value of x let's amik executed 10 9 I call my phunk right.
With let's say a again.
What are we going to get.
Well it's going to return a multi all repeated how many times ten times.
Because now we're looking at the max of x and y.
But you'll notice that the value for B hasn't changed.
Right.
It's still fine.
Why.
Because this Max doesn't get re-evaluated every time you call the function.
It only gets evaluated when the function is created at the time the function was created X was three
and one was five.
So the max was fine.
And you'll notice that the same thing happens with the notation.
So if we look at help actually let's just look at the dictionary itself.
You'll notice that the return still says the character a repeated five times.
Right.
So it didn't change the adaptation either.
So just something to be aware of.
All right finally I said that you know it doesn't.
These notations don't change what happens in your code.
And you can still use all the ways you can define parameters of stars and the style styles and so on.
You can keep doing that as well is using the annotations.
So a very quick example of how you format that.
So here you have a that's I'm going to say a has to be a strain and it doesn't have to be a string I'm
just saying that that's the notation that I want to assign to a we'll look at something called type
hinting in the next section which is a little different it kind of expands that's a recent thing you
know enhancement to notations but it doesn't change the character of Python which is a dynamically typed
language.
They will take B and we'll say Well B should be an interpreter to then zero for example.
Right.
And then maybe we're going to take.
And then we'll set a value equal to 1.
So we'll set a default one then we'll take in some extra arguments and again and notate that as usual.
So some extra positional odds then you can put in key value arguments that k k won let's say you won.
You know Sam while he was the only argument won.
And then we can put K to pick which is going to be a key word only argument 2.
And now we can also specify a default value for it that say 100.
And then finally we can pass in on some extra keyword.
Our only arguments the sun extra key word only Onza and all I'm going to do here and return.
You know something will return something.
And here if we're just going to print right we're going to print a and b and K one and K to and Kwan's
get.
So that's all the function.
Nothing just shows what arguments were passed then of course that can do help on my phunk right.
Well we'll get this.
Now if you want you can also look at my phone notations.
Right.
And here we go.
You are either you know here's the dictionary with the key word values the key word being the parameter
names the values being the annotations and of course the my funk was just as normal.
So we can pass and you know A's will pass and a value of 1 B will pass and about your two will pass
in a few extra positional arguments.
Then we have a keyword only argument K one is equal to maybe 10.
And I'm not going to specify K-2 I'm going to let it default.
Right.
And then we'll pass and some other stuff let's say K3 equals 300 K for equals 400.
So some additional keyword only arguments and as you can see it gets handled as normal.
Right.
A and B were one in two three four and five went into that style and then 10 and a 100 was K-1 and K
to K to use the fold in Q3 and Q4 additional key would only arguments got passed.
You know I got taken into that dictionary so it doesn't change anything you can still use your parameters
and still create your parameters just as before.
Nothing's changed.
All right.
So thanks for watching.
I'll see you in the next video.